PRIMAL: Pathﬁnding via Reinforcement and Imitation
Multi-Agent Learning
Guillaume Sartoretti1, Justin Kerr1, Yunfei Shi1, Glenn Wagner2,
T. K. Satish Kumar3, Sven Koenig3, and Howie Choset1
Abstract — Multi-agent path ﬁnding (MAPF) is an essential
component of many large-scale, real-world robot deployments,
from aerial swarms to warehouse automation. However, de-
spite the community’s continued efforts, most state-of-the-art
MAPF planners still rely on centralized planning and scale
poorly past a few hundred agents. Such planning approaches
are maladapted to real-world deployments, where noise and
uncertainty often require paths be recomputed online, which
is impossible when planning times are in seconds to min-
utes. We present PRIMAL, a novel framework for MAPF
that combines reinforcement and imitation learning to teach
fully-decentralized policies, where agents reactively plan paths
online in a partially-observable world while exhibiting implicit
coordination. This framework extends our previous work on
distributed learning of collaborative policies by introducing
demonstrations of an expert MAPF planner during training, as
well as careful reward shaping and environment sampling. Once
learned, the resulting policy can be copied onto any number of
agents and naturally scales to different team sizes and world
dimensions. We present results on randomized worlds with up
to 1024 agents and compare success rates against state-of-the-
art MAPF planners. Finally, we experimentally validate the
learned policies in a hybrid simulation of a factory mockup,
involving both real-world and simulated robots.
I. INTRODUCTION
Given the rapid development of affordable robots with em-
bedded sensing and computation capabilities, manufacturing
applications will soon regularly involve the deployment of
thousands of robots [1], [2]. To support these applications,
signiﬁcant research effort has been devoted to multi-agent
path ﬁnding (MAPF) [3], [4], [5], [6] for deployment in
distribution centers and potential use for airplane taxiing [7],
[8]. However, as the number of agents in the system grows,
so does the complexity of coordinating them. Current state-
of-the-art optimal planners can plan for several hundreds
of agents, and the community is now settling for bounded
suboptimal planners as a potential solution for even larger
multi-agent systems [3], [9]. Another common approach
is to rely on reactive planners, which do not plan joint
paths for all agents before execution, but rather correct
individual paths online to avoid collisions [5], [10]. However,
such planners often prove inefﬁcient in cluttered factory
G. Sartoretti, H. Choset, J. Kerr, Y . Shi are with the Robotics
Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.
{gsartore,jgkerr,yunfeischoset }@andrew.cmu.edu .
G. Wagner is with the Commonwealth Scientiﬁc and Industrial
Research Organisation (CSIRO), Pullenvale QLD 4069, Australia,
glenn.s.wagner@gmail.com .
T. K. S. Kumar and S. Koenig are with the Computer Science Department
at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA.
tkskwork@gmail.com, skoenig@usc.edu .
Fig. 1. Example problem where 100 simulated robots (white dots) must
compute individual collision-free paths in a large, factory-like environment.
environments (such as Fig. 1), where they can result in dead-
and livelocks [5].
Extending our previous work on distributed reinforce-
ment learning (RL) for multiple agents in shared environ-
ments [11], [12], the main contribution of this paper intro-
duces PRIMAL, a novel hybrid framework for decentralized
MAPF that combines RL [13] and imitation learning (IL)
from an expert centralized MAPF planner. In this framework,
agents learn to take into account the consequences of their
position on other agents, in order to favor movements that
will beneﬁt the whole team and not only themselves. That
is, by simultaneously learning to plan efﬁcient single-agent
paths (mostly via RL), and to imitate a centralized expert
(IL), agents ultimately learn a decentralized policy where
they still exhibit implicit coordination during online path
planning without the need for explicit communication among
agents. Since multiple agents learn a common, single-agent
policy, the ﬁnal learned policy can be copied onto any
number of agents. Additionally, we consider the case where
agents evolve in a partially-observable world, where they
can only observe the world in a limited ﬁeld of view (FOV)
around themselves. We present the results of an extensive
set of simulation experiments and show that the ﬁnal, trained
policies naturally scale to various team and world sizes. We
further highlight cases where PRIMAL outperforms other
state-of-the-art MAPF planners and cases where it struggles.
We also present experimental results of the trained policy in
a hybrid simulation of a factory mockup.
The paper is structured as follows: In Section II, we sum-
marize the state-of-the-art in MAPF and multi-agent RL. We
detail how MAPF is cast in the RL framework in Section III,
and how learning is carried out in Section IV. Section V
presents our results, and Section VI concluding remarks.arXiv:1809.03531v3  [cs.RO]  20 Feb 2019

II. PRIOR WORK
A. Multi-Agent Path Finding (MAPF)
MAPF is an NP-hard problem even when approximat-
ing optimal solutions [14], [15]. MAPF planners can be
broadly classiﬁed into three categories: coupled, decoupled,
and dynamically-coupled approaches. Coupled approaches
(e.g., standard A∗), which treat the multi-agent system as
a single, very high dimensional agent, greatly suffer from
an exponential growth in planning complexity. Hence we
focus on decoupled and dynamically-coupled, state-of-the-
art planners for large MAPF problems.
Decoupled approaches compute individual paths for each
agent, and then adjust these paths to avoid collisions. Since
individual paths can be planned, as well as adjusted for
collisions, in low-dimensional search spaces, decoupled ap-
proaches can rapidly ﬁnd paths for large multi-agent sys-
tems [5], [16]. Velocity planners ﬁx the individual path that
will be followed by each agent, then ﬁnd a velocity proﬁle
along those paths that avoids collisions [6], [10]. In partic-
ular, ORCA [5] adapts the agents’ velocity magnitudes and
directions online to avoid collisions, on top of individually-
planned single-agent paths, and recent work has focused on
such an obstacle avoidance approach using reinforcement
learning (RL) [10]. Priority planners assign a priority to
each agent, and plan individual paths in decreasing order of
priority, each time treating higher priority agents as moving
obstacles [17], [18], [19]. The main drawback of decoupled
approaches is that the low-dimensional search spaces used
only represent a small portion of the joint conﬁguration
space, meaning that these approaches cannot be complete
(i.e., ﬁnd paths for all solvable problems) [20].
Several recent approaches lie between coupled and decou-
pled approaches: they allow for richer agent-agent behaviors
than can be achieved with decoupled planners, while avoid-
ing planning in the joint conﬁguration space. A common
approach followed by dynamically coupled approaches is
to grow the search space as necessary during planning [3],
[21]. Conﬂict-Based Search (CBS) and its variants [4], [21]
plans for individual agents and constructs a set of constraints
to ﬁnd optimal or near-optimal solutions without exploring
higher-dimensional spaces. Extending standard A∗to MAPF,
M∗and its variants [3] ﬁrst plan paths for individual agents
and then project these individual plans forward through
time searching for collisions. The conﬁguration space is
only locally expanded around any collision between single-
agent plans, where joint planning is performed through
(usually limited) backtracking to solve the collision and
resume single-agent plans. In particular, OD-recursive- M∗
(ODrM*) [22] can further reduce the set of agents for which
joint planning is necessary, by breaking it down into indepen-
dent collision sets, combined with Operator Decomposition
(OD) [23] to keep the branching factor small during search.
B. Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL)
The ﬁrst and most important problem encountered when
transitioning from single- to multi-agent learning is the curseof dimensionality: most joint approaches fail as the state-
action spaces explode combinatorially, requiring impractical
amounts of training data to converge [24]. In this context,
many recent work have focused on decentralized policy
learning [25], [26], [27], [28], [29], where agents each learn
their own policy, which should encompass a measure of agent
cooperation, at least during training. One such approach is to
train agents to predict other agents’ actions [26], [27], which
generally scales poorly as the team size increases. In most
cases, some form of centralized learning is involved, where
the sum of experience of all agents can be used towards
training a common aspect of the problem (e.g., network
output or value/advantage calculation) [25], [27], [28]. When
centrally learning a network output, parameter sharing has
been used to enable faster and more stable training by sharing
the weights of some of the layers of the neural net [25]. In
actor-critic approaches, for example, the critic output of the
network is often trained centrally with parameter sharing,
since it applies to all agents in the system, and has been used
to train cooperation between agents [25], [27]. Centralized
learning can also help when dealing with partially-observable
systems, by aggregating all the agents’ observations into a
single learning process [25], [27], [28].
Second, many existing approaches rely on explicit com-
munication among agents, to share observations or selected
actions during training and sometimes also during policy
execution [26], [27], [28]. In our previous work [11], [12],
we focused on extending the state-of-the-art asynchronous
advantage actor-critic (A3C) algorithm to enable multiple
agents to learn a common, homogeneous policy in shared
environments without the need for any explicit agent com-
munication. That is, the agents had access to the full state of
the system (fully-observable world), and treated each other
as moving obstacles. There, stabilizing learning is key: the
learning gradients obtained by agents experiencing the same
episode in the same environment are often very correlated
and destabilized the learning process. To prevent this, we
relied on experience replay [30] and carefully randomized
episode initialization. However, we did not train agents to
exhibit any form of coordination. That is, in our previous
extension of A3C, agents collaborate (i.e., work towards
a common goal) but do not explicitly cooperate (i.e., take
actions to beneﬁt the whole group and not only themselves).
In our work, we propose to rely on imitation learning
(IL)of an expert centralized planner (ODrM*) to train agents
to exhibit coordination, without the need for explicit com-
munication, in a partially-observable world. We also propose
a carefully crafted reward structure and a way to sample the
challenges used to train the agents. The resulting, trained
policy is executed by each agent based on locally gathered
information but still allows agents to exhibit cooperative be-
havior, and is also robust against agent failures or additions.
III. POLICY REPRESENTATION
In this section, we present how the MAPF problem is cast
into the RL framework. We detail the observation and action

spaces of each agent, the reward structure and the neural
network that represents the policy to be learned.
A. Observation Space
We consider a partially-observable discrete gridworld,
where agents can only observe the state of the world in a
limited FOV centered around themselves ( 10×10FOV in
practice). We believe that considering a partially-observable
world is an important step towards real-world robot deploy-
ment. In scenarios where the full map of the environment is
available (e.g., automated warehouses), it is always possible
to train agents with full observability of the system by
using a sufﬁciently large FOV . Additionally, assuming a ﬁxed
FOV can allow the policy to generalize to arbitrary world
sizes and also helps to reduce the input dimension to the
neural network. However, an agent needs to have access to
information about its goal, which is often outside of its FOV .
To this end, it has access to both a unit vector pointing
towards its goal and Euclidean distance to its goal at all
times (see Figure 2).
In the limited FOV , we separate the available information
into different channels to simplify the agents’ learning task.
Speciﬁcally, each observation consists of binary matrices
representing the obstacles, the positions of other agents,
the agent’s own goal location (if within the FOV), and the
position of other observable agents’ goals. When agents are
close to the edges of the world, obstacles are added at all
positions outside the world’s boundaries.
B. Action Space
Agents take discrete actions in the gridworld: moving
one cell in one of the four cardinal directions or staying
still. At each timestep, certain actions may be invalid, such
as moving into a wall or another agent. During training,
actions are sampled only from valid actions and an additional
loss function aids in learning this information. We exper-
imentally observed that this approach enables more stable
training, compared to giving negative rewards to agents for
selecting invalid moves. Additionally, to combat convergence
to oscillating policies, agents are prevented during training
from returning to the location they occupied at the last
timestep (agents can still stay still during multiple successive
timesteps). This is necessary to encourage exploration and
learn effective policies (even when also using IL).
If an agent selects an invalid move during testing, it instead
stays still for that timestep. In practice, agents very rarely
select invalid moves once fully trained, showing that they
effectively learn the set of valid actions in each state.
C. Reward Structure
Our reward function (Table I) follows the same intuition
that most reward functions for gridworlds use, where agents
are punished for each timestep they are not resting on goal,
leading to the strategy of reaching their goals as quickly
as possible. We penalize agents slightly more for staying
still than for moving, which is necessary to encourage
exploration. Even though imitation assists in exploration, we
Obstacles
 Agents'
positionsNeighbors'
goalsAgent's
goalWorld state
Unit vector|v|
vv^MagnitudeFig. 2. Observation space of each agent (here, for the light blue agent).
Agents are displayed as colored squares, their goals as similarly-colored
stars, and obstacles as grey squares. Each agent only has access to a limited
ﬁeld of view (FOV) centered around its position, in which information is
broken down into channels: positions of obstacles, position of nearby agents,
goal positions of these nearby agents (projected onto the boundary of the
FOV if outside of the FOV), and position of its goal if within the FOV . Note
how the bottom row of the obstacle channel has been ﬁlled with obstacles,
since these positions are outside of the world’s boundaries. Each agent also
has access to a normalized vector pointing to its goal (often outside of its
FOV) and its magnitude (distance to goal), as a natural way to let agents
learn to select their general direction of travel.
found that removing this aspect of the reward function led to
poor convergence, which might be the case due to conﬂicts
between the RL and IL gradients. Though invalid moves
(moving back to the previous cell, or into an obstacle) are
ﬁltered out of the action space during training as described
in Section III-B because agents act sequentially in a random
order, it is still possible for them to collide, e.g., when
multiple agents choose to move to the same location at
the same timestep. Agent collisions result in a −2reward.
Agents receive a +20 reward for ﬁnishing an episode, i.e.,
when all agents are on their goals simultaneously.
TABLE I
SIMPLE REWARD STRUCTURE .
Action Reward
Move [N/E/S/W] -0.3
Agent Collision -2.0
No Movement (on/off goal) 0.0 / -0.5
Finish Episode +20.0
D. Actor-Critic Network
Our work relies on the asynchronous advantage actor-
critic (A3C) algorithm [31] and extends our previous work

PolicyInput  T ensors
Conv2D
Conv2D
Conv2DLSTM
Fully connectedFully connected
V alueFully connected Fully connectedFully connected
Softmaxblocking  Sigmoid
10x10x128
ReLUReLU
512x1512x1
512x1 512x1512x110x10x4  
5x1 1x11x1Goal Position2x1  
10x10x128
10x10x128
MaxPool  5x5x128Conv2D
Conv2D
Conv2D5x5x128
5x5x256
5x5x256MaxPool  2x2x256Fully connected
Concatenate500x112x1
ReLU
512x1
Conv2DFig. 3. The neural network consists of 7convolutional layers interleaved with maxpooling layers, followed by an LSTM.
on distributed learning for multiple agents in shared en-
vironments [11], [12]. We use a deep neural network to
approximate the agent’s policy, which maps the current
observation of its surroundings to the next action to take. This
network has multiple outputs, one of them being the actual
policy and the others only being used toward training it.
We use the 6-layer convolutional network pictured in Fig. 3,
taking inspiration from VGGnet [32], using several small
3×3kernels between each max-pooling layer.
Speciﬁcally, the two inputs to the neural network – the
local observation and the goal direction/distance – are pre-
processed independently, before being concatenated half-way
through the neural network. The four-channel matrices ( 10×
10×4tensor) representing the local observation are passed
through two stages of three convolutions and maxpooling,
followed by a last convolutional layer. In parallel, the goal
unit vector and magnitude are passed through one fully-
connected (fc) layer. The concatenation of both of these
pre-processed inputs is then passed through two fc layers,
which is ﬁnally fed into a long-short-term memory (LSTM)
cell with output size 512. A residual shortcut [33] connects
the output of the concatenation layer to the input layer of
the LSTM. The output layers consist of the policy neurons
with softmax activation, the value output, and a feature layer
used to train each agent to know whether it is blocking other
agents from reaching their goals (detailed in Section IV-A.1).
During training, the policy, value, and “blocking” outputs
are updated in batch every n= 256 steps or when an episode
ﬁnishes. As is common, the value is updated to match the
total discounted return ( Rt=∑k
i=0γirt+i) by minimizing:
LV=T∑
t=0(V(ot;θ)−Rt)2. (1)
To update the policy, we use an approximation of the
advantage function by bootstrapping using the value func-
tion:A(ot,at;θ) =∑k−1
i=0γirt+i+γkV(ok+t;θ)−V(ot;θ)
(wherekis bounded by the batch size T). We also add an
entropy term H(π(o))to the policy loss, which has been
shown to encourage exploration and discourage premature
convergence [34] by penalizing a policy that always chooses
the same actions. The policy loss reads
Lπ=σH·H(π(o))−T∑
t=0log(P(at|π,o;θ)A(ot,at;θ))(2)
with a small entropy weight σH(σH= 0.01in practice). We
rely on two additional loss functions which help to guideand stabilize training. First, the blocking prediction output
is updated by minimizing Lblocking , the log likelihood of
predicting incorrectly. Second, we deﬁne the loss function
Lvalid to minimize the log likelihood of selecting an invalid
move [11], as mentioned in Section III-B.
IV. LEARNING
In this section, we detail our distributed framework for
learning MAPF with implicit agent coordination. The RL
portion of our framework builds upon our previous work
on distributed RL for multiple agents in shared environ-
ments [11], [12]. In our work, we introduce an IL module
that allows agents to learn from expert demonstrations.
A. Coordination Learning
One of the key challenges in training a decentralized
policy is to encourage agents to act selﬂessly, even though
it may be detrimental to their immediate maximization of
reward. In particular, agents typically display undesirable
selﬁsh behavior when stopped on their goals while blocking
other agents’ access to their own goals. A naive implemen-
tation of our previous work [11], where agents distributedly
learn a fully selﬁsh policy, fails in dense environments with
many narrow environmental features where the probability
of blocking other agents is high. That is, agents simply learn
to move as fast as possible to their goals, and then to never
move away from it, not even to let other agents access their
own goals (despite the fact that this would end the episode
earlier, which would result in higher rewards for all agents).
Many of the current multi-agent training techniques ad-
dressing this selﬁshness problem are invalidated by the
size of the environments and the limited FOV of agents.
Shared critics [27] have proven effective at multi-agent credit
assignment. However, these methods are typically used when
agents have almost full information about their environment.
In our highly decentralized scenario, assigning credit to
agents may be confusing when they cannot observe the
source of the penalty, for example, when an agent cannot
observe that a long hallway is a dead-end, yet the universal
critic sharply decreases the value function. Another popular
multi-agent training technique is to apply joint rewards to
agents in an attempt to help them realize the beneﬁt of taking
personal sacriﬁces to beneﬁt the team [35], [12]. We brieﬂy
tried to assign joint rewards to agents within the same FOV .
However, this produced no noticeable difference in behavior,
so we abandoned it in favor of the methods described below.

To successfully teach agents collaborative behavior, we
rely on three methods: applying a penalty for encouraging
other agents’ movement (called the “blocking penalty”),
using expert demonstrations during training, and tailoring
the random environments during training to expose agents
to more difﬁcult cluttered scenarios. We emphasize that,
without all three methods, the learning process is either
unstable (no learning) or converges to a worse policy than
with all three, as is apparent in Fig. 5.
1) Blocking Penalty: First, we augment the reward func-
tion shown in Table I with a sharp penalty ( −2in practice)
if an agent decides to stay on goal while preventing another
agent from reaching its goal. The intuition behind this reward
is to provide an incentive for agents to leave their goals,
offsetting the (selﬁsh) local maximum agents experience
while resting on goal. Our deﬁnition of blocking includes
cases where an agent is not just preventing another agent
from reaching its goal, but also cases where an agent delays
another agent signiﬁcantly (in practice, by 10or more steps
to match the size of the agents’ FOV). This looser deﬁnition
of blocking is necessary because of the agents’ small FOV .
Although an alternate route might exists around the agent in
larger worlds, it is illogical to move around the agent when
coordination could lead to shorter a path, especially if the
alternate route lies outside the agent’s FOV (and therefore is
uncertain).
We use standard A∗to determine the length of an agent’s
path from its current position to its goal and then that of
its path when each one of the other agents is removed from
the world. If the second path is shorter than the ﬁrst one by
more than 10steps, that other agent is considered blocking.
The “blocking” output of the network is trained to predict
when an agent is blocking others, to implicitly provide the
agent with an “explanation” of the extra penalty it will incur
in this case.
2) Combining RL and IL: Second, combining RL and IL
has been shown to lead to faster, more stable training as well
as higher-quality solutions in robot manipulation [36], [37],
[38]. These advantages are likely due to the fact that IL can
help to quickly identify high-quality regions of the agents
state-action space, while RL can further improve the policy
by freely exploring these regions. In our work, we randomly
select in the beginning of each episode whether it will involve
RL or IL (thus setting the central switch in the middle of
Fig. 4). Such demonstrations are generated dynamically by
relying on the centralized planner ODrM* [3] (with ϵ= 2).
A trajectory of observations and actions T∈(O×A )n
is obtained for each agent, and we minimize the behavior
cloning loss:
Lbc=−1
TT∑
t=0log(P(at|π,ot;θ)). (3)
Our implementation deviates from [36], [39] in that we
combine off-policy behavior cloning with on-policy actor-
critic learning, rather than with off-policy deep deterministic
policy gradient. We explored this approach since we can
cheaply generate expert demonstrations online in the begin-
ning of a new training episode, as opposed to other work
W orldReinfor cement Learning
a1 a... an
Expert (M*)  Agent 1 Agent  ... Agent no1 r1 o... r... on rn
a1 a ... an 
o1...n
Imitation LearningRL/IL
SwitchAC Net 1 AC Net  ... AC Net nFig. 4. Structure of our hybrid RL/IL approach. In the beginning of each
episode, a random draw determines whether the episode will be RL- or IL-
based, and the “switch” (in the middle) is set accordingly. For the RL-based
learning, at each timestep, each agent ( 1, .., n ) draws its observation oiand
reward rifor its previous action from the world (learning environment)
and uses the observation to select an action aivia its own copy of the
neural network. The actions of different agents are executed sequentially in
a random order. Since agents often push and pull weights from a common,
shared neural network, they ultimately share the same weights in their
individual nets. For the IL-based learning, an expert centralized planner
coordinates all agents during the episode, whose behavior the agents learn
to imitate, allowing them to learn coordinated behaviors.
where learning agents only have access to a ﬁnite set of pre-
recorded expert trajectories. The heuristic used in ODrM*
inherently helps generate high-quality paths with respect
to our reward structure (Table I), where agents move to
their goals as quickly as possible (while avoiding collisions)
and rest on it. Therefore, the RL/IL gradients are naturally
coherent, thus avoiding oscillations in the learning process.
Leveraging demonstrations is a necessary component of
our system: without it, learning progresses far slower and
converges to a signiﬁcantly worse solution. However, we
experimented with various IL proportions ( 10-50% by in-
crements of 10%) and observed that the RL/IL ratio does
not seem to affect the performance of the trained policy by
much. Finally, although we could use dynamic methods such
as DAGGER[40] or conﬁdent inference [41] because of the
availability of a real-time planner, we chose to use behavior
cloning because of its simplicity and ease of implementation.
It is unclear whether using such methods would lead to a
performance increase, and will be the subject of future works.
3) Environment Sampling: Finally, during training, we
randomize both the sizes and obstacle densities of worlds
in the beginning of each episode. We found that uniformly
sampling the size and densities of worlds did not expose
the agents to enough situations in which coordination is
necessary because of the relative sparsity of agent-agent
interactions. We therefore sample both the size and the

obstacle density from a distribution that favors smaller and
denser environments, forcing the agents to learn coordination
since they experience agent-agent interactions more often.
B. Training Details
1) Environment: The size of the square environment is
randomly selected in the beginning of each episode to be
either 10,40, or 70, with a probability distribution that
makes 10-sized worlds twice as likely. The obstacle density
is randomly selected from a triangular distribution between
0and50%, with the peak centered at 33%. The placement of
obstacles, agents, and goals is uniformly at random across the
environment, with the caveat that each agent had to be able
to reach its goal. That is, each agent is initially placed in the
same connected region as its goal. It is possible that agents
train in impossible environments (e.g., two agents might be
spawned in the same narrow connected region, each on the
other’s goal), although highly unlikely. The actions of the
agents are executed sequentially in a random order at each
timestep to ensure that they have equal priority (i.e., race
conditions are resolved randomly).
2) Parameters: We use a discount factor ( γ) of0.95, an
episode length of 256, and a batch size of 128so that up to
two gradient updates are performed each episode per agent.
The probability of observing a demonstration is 50% per
episode. We use the Nadam optimizer [42] with a learning
rate beginning at 2·10−5and decaying proportionally to
the inverse square root of episode count. We train in 3
independent environments with 8agents each, synchronizing
agents in the same environment in the beginning of each step
and allowing them to act in parallel. Training was performed
at the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center (PSC) [43] on 7
cores of a Intel Xeon E5-2695 and one NVIDIA K80 GPU,
and lasted around 20days. The full code used to train agents
is available at https://goo.gl/T627XD .
V. RESULTS
In this section, we present the results of an extensive set
of simulations comparing PRIMAL against state-of-the-art
MAPF planners in gridworlds. These tests are performed
in environments with varying obstacle densities, grid sizes,
and team sizes. Finally, we present experimental results
for a scenario featuring both physical and simulated robots
planning paths online in an indoor factory mockup.
A. Comparison with Other MAPF Planners
For our experiments, we selected CBS [21] as our optimal,
centralized planner, ODrM* [3] as suboptimal, centralized
option (with inﬂation factors ϵ= 1.5andϵ= 10 ), and
ORCA [5] as fully-decoupled velocity planner. Note that
all other planners have access to the whole state of the
system, whereas PRIMAL assumes that each agent only
has partial observability of the system. World sizes are
{10,20,40,80,160}, densities{0,0.1,0.2,0.3}, and team
sizes{4,8,...,1024}. We placed no more than 32agents in
10-sized worlds, no more than 128agents in 20-sized worlds,
and no more than 1024 agents in 40-sized worlds.
0 1 2 3.14
Episode 105.050100150200256Episode lengthMean episode length during training
Full PRIMAL
No Environment Sampling
No Blocking Penalty
No Imitation Learning
Expert (ODrM*)Fig. 5. Mean episode length during training, lower is better. The dotted
line shows the baseline, obtained from the expert ODrM* planner. When
we remove either environment sampling, the blocking penalties, or imitation
learning from our approach, the policy converges to a worse solution.
In our experiments, we compared the success rates of
the different planners, that is whether they complete a
given problem within a given amount of wall clock time
or timesteps. For CBS and ODrM*, we used a timeout of
300s and 60s, respectively, to match previous results [3]. We
divided the timeout by 5for ODrM* because we used a
C+ + implementation which was experimentally measured
to be about 5times faster than the previously used Python
implementation. For ORCA, we use a timeout of 60s but
terminate early when all agents are in a deadlock (deﬁned
as all agents being stuck for more than 120s simulation
time, which corresponds to 10s physical time). Finally, for
PRIMAL, we let the agents plan individual paths for up to
256timesteps for 10- to40-sized worlds, 384timesteps for
80-sized worlds, and 512 timesteps for 160-sized worlds.
Experiments for the conventional planners were carried out
on a single desktop computer, equipped with an AMD
Threadripper 2990 WX with 64logical cores clocked at 4Ghz
and64Gb of RAM. Experiments for PRIMAL were partially
run on the same computer, which is also equipped with 3
GPUs (NVIDIA Titan V , GTX 1080 Ti and 1070 Ti), as well
as on a simple desktop with an Intel i 7-7700 K,16Gb RAM
and an NVIDIA GTX 1070 .
Based on our results, we ﬁrst notice that our approach per-
forms extremely well in low obstacle densities, where agents
can easily go around each other, but is easily outperformed
in dense environments, where joint actions seem necessary
for agents to reach their goals (which sometimes requires
drastic path changes). Similarly, but with signiﬁcantly worse
performance, ORCA cannot protect against deadlocks and
performs very poorly in most scenarios involving more than
16agents and any obstacles, due to its fully-decoupled,
reactive nature. Second, we notice that, since our training
involves worlds of varying sizes but a constant team size,
agents are inherently exposed to a small variability in agent
density within their FOV . In our results, we observed that
agents perform more poorly as the number of nearby agents
increases in their FOV (small worlds, large teams), an
effect we believe could be corrected by varying the team
sizes during training. This will be investigated in future
works. However, we expect traditional planners to generally
outperform our approach in small ( 10-20-sized) worlds, even
with larger teams. Third, we notice that the paths generated
by PRIMAL are sometimes more than twice as long as

the paths of the other planners’. However, other planners
allow moves that the agents cannot take in our deﬁnition of
the MAPF problem: agents can follow each other with no
empty space between them, can swap around (similar to a
runabout), etc. [3], which leads to shorter paths. Additionally,
visual inspection of the cases where PRIMAL generates
longer paths shows that most agents move to their goals
effectively, except for a few laggards. Finally, since agents
are never exposed to worlds larger than 70×70during
training, they seem to perform extremely poorly in larger
worlds during testing ( ≥80-sized). However, by capping
the goal distance in the agents’ state, PRIMAL’s success rate
in larger worlds can be drastically improved. In the results
presented here for 80- and 160-sized worlds, the distance to
goal is capped at 75(empirically set) in the agents’ state.
Example videos of near-optimal and severely sub-optimal
plans for PRIMAL in various environments are available
athttps://goo.gl/T627XD .
Due to space constraints, we choose to discuss the three
main scenarios shown in Fig. 6: a case where PRIMAL
strongly outperforms all other planners, one where PRIMAL
slightly outperforms them, and one where PRIMAL strug-
gles. The complete set of results (for all team sizes, obstacles
densities, and world sizes) can be found at https://goo.
gl/APktNk and contains the path lengths generated by the
different planners as well as the planning times. First, in a
large world with no obstacles ( 160×160), centralized plan-
ners especially struggle since the joint conﬁguration space
quickly grows to encompass all agents, making planning for
more than 100agents very time-consuming. PRIMAL, on the
other hand, can easily deal with teams up to 1024 agents,
with a near-perfect success rate. Second, in a medium-sized
world with low obstacle density, the centralized planners can
easily plan for a few hundred agents. PRIMAL’s success rate
starts decreasing earlier than that of the other planners, but
remains above 60% for cases with 512 agents, whereas all
other planners perform poorly. Third, in a smaller world that
is very densely populated with obstacles, all planners can
only handle up to 64agents, but PRIMAL starts to struggle
past8agents, whereas ODrM* can handle up to 64agents.
However, even when PRIMAL cannot ﬁnish a full problem, it
usually manages to bring many agents to their goals quickly,
with only a few failing to reach their goals. At this point, a
conventional planner could be used to complete the problem,
which has become simple for a graph-based solver since
most agents should remain motionless at their goals. Future
work will investigate the combination of PRIMAL with a
complete planner to leverage the fast, decentralized planning
of PRIMAL while guaranteeing completeness.
B. Experimental Validation
We also implemented PRIMAL on a small ﬂeet of au-
tonomous ground vehicles (AGVs) evolving in a factory
mockup. In this hybrid system, two physical robots evolve
alongside two (then, half-way through the experiment, three)
simulated ones. The physical robots have access to the
position of simulated robots, and vice-versa, as they all plan
4 8 16 32 64 128 256 512 1024050100Success Rate [%]Succes rates - obstacle density 0.0, world size 160
4 8 16 32 64 128 256 512 1024050100Success Rate [%]Succes rates - obstacle density 0.1, world size 80
Fig. 6. Success rates of the different planners in our three scenarios.
PRIMAL outperforms all planners in the top obstacle-free world, slightly
outperforms the others in low-obstacle-density worlds, and is strongly
outperformed in the high-obstacle-density world.
Fig. 7. Snapshot of the physical and simulated robots evolving in the factory
mockup. Left: overhead (top) and side (bottom) views of the mockup and
robots. Right: visualization showing the obstacles (black solids), the robots
(blue circles), their goals (blue squares), and current moves (green squares).
their next actions online using our decentralized approach.
PRIMAL shows clear online capabilities, as the planning
time per step and per agent is well below 0.1s on a standard
GPU (and well below 0.2s on a CPU). Fig. 7 shows our
factory mockup and simulation environment. The full video
is available at https://goo.gl/T627XD .
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we presented PRIMAL, a new approach
to multi-agent path ﬁnding, which relies on combining dis-
tributed reinforcement learning and imitation learning from
a centralized expert planner. Through an extensive set of
experiments, we showed how PRIMAL scales to various
team sizes, world sizes and obstacle densities, despite only

giving agents access to local information about the world. In
low obstacle-density environments, we further showed how
PRIMAL exhibits on-par performance, and even outperforms
state-of-the-art MAPF planners in some cases, even though
these have access to the whole state of the system. Finally,
we presented an example where we deployed PRIMAL on
physical and simulated robots in a factory mockup, showing
how robots can beneﬁt from our online, local-information-
based, decentralized MAPF approach.
Future work will focus on adapting our training procedure
to factory-like environments, with low to medium obsta-
cle density but where parts of the environment are very
sparse and other parts highly-structured (such as corridors,
aisles, etc.). We also believe that extending our approach
to receding-horizon planning, where agents plan ahead for
several actions, may help to improve the performance of PRI-
MAL by teaching agents to explicitly coordinate their paths.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Detailed comments from anonymous referees contributed to
the presentation and quality of this paper. This research was
supported by the CMU Manufacturing Futures Initiative,
made possible by the Richard King Mellon Foundation.
Justin Kerr was a CMU SURF student, funded by the Na-
tional Science Foundation (NSF). The research at USC was
supported by NSF grants 1409987, 1724392, 1817189, and
1837779. This work used the Bridges system, supported by
NSF grant ACI-1445606 at the Pittsburgh Supercomputing
Center [43].
REFERENCES
[1] M. Rubenstein, A. Cornejo, and R. Nagpal, “Programmable self-
assembly in a thousand-robot swarm,” Science , vol. 345, no. 6198,
pp. 795–799, 2014.
[2] A. Howard, L. E. Parker, and G. S. Sukhatme, “Experiments with
a Large Heterogeneous Mobile Robot Team: Exploration, Mapping,
Deployment and Detection,” The International Journal of Robotics
Research , vol. 25, no. 5-6, pp. 431–447, 2006.
[3] G. Wagner and H. Choset, “Subdimensional expansion for multirobot
path planning,” Artiﬁcial Intelligence , vol. 219, pp. 1–24, 2015.
[4] M. Barer, G. Sharon, R. Stern, and A. Felner, “Suboptimal variants
of the conﬂict-based search algorithm for the multi-agent pathﬁnding
problem,” in Proceedings of SoCS , 2014.
[5] J. Van Den Berg, S. J. Guy, M. Lin, and D. Manocha, “Reciprocal
n-body collision avoidance,” in Robotics Research , 2011, pp. 3–19.
[6] R. Cui, B. Gao, and J. Guo, “Pareto-optimal coordination of multiple
robots with safety guarantees,” Autonomous Robots , vol. 32, no. 3, pp.
189–205, 2011.
[7] J. L. Baxter, E. Burke, J. M. Garibaldi, and M. Norman, “Multi-robot
search and rescue: A potential ﬁeld based approach,” in Autonomous
Robots and Agents , 2007, pp. 9–16.
[8] H. Balakrishnan and Y . Jung, “A framework for coordinated surface
operations planning at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport,” in
AIAA GNC , vol. 3, 2007, pp. 2382–2400.
[9] K.-H. C. Wang and A. Botea, “MAPP: a scalable multi-agent path
planning algorithm with tractability and completeness guarantees,”
Journal of Artiﬁcial Intelligence Research , vol. 42, pp. 55–90, 2011.
[10] Y . F. Chen, M. Liu, M. Everett, and J. P. How, “Decentralized non-
communicating multiagent collision avoidance with deep reinforce-
ment learning,” in ICRA , 2017, pp. 285–292.
[11] G. Sartoretti, Y . Wu, W. Paivine, T. K. S. Kumar, S. Koenig, and
H. Choset, “Distributed reinforcement learning for multi-robot decen-
tralized collective construction,” in DARS , 2018, pp. 35–49.[12] G. Sartoretti, Y . Shi, W. Paivine, M. Travers, and H. Choset, “Dis-
tributed learning for the decentralized control of articulated mobile
robots,” in ICRA , 2018, pp. 3789–3794.
[13] R. S. Sutton and A. G. Barto, “Reinforcement learning: An introduc-
tion,” A Bradford Book , 1998.
[14] H. Ma, D. Harabor, J. Li, and S. Koenig, “Searching with Consistent
Prioritization for Multi-Agent Path Finding,” in AAAI , 2019.
[15] S. LaValle, Planning Algorithms . Cambridge University Press, 2006.
[16] S. Leroy, J.-P. Laumond, and T. Sim ´eon, “Multiple Path Coordination
for Mobile Robots: A Geometric Algorithm,” in IJCAI , 1999, pp.
1118–1123.
[17] H. Ma, C. A. Tovey, G. Sharon, T. S. Kumar, and S. Koenig, “Multi-
Agent Path Finding with Payload Transfers and the Package-Exchange
Robot-Routing Problem,” in AAAI , 2016, pp. 3166–3173.
[18] M. C ´ap, P. Nov ´ak, M. Seleck ´y, J. Faigl, and J. V ok ´ınek, “Asyn-
chronous decentralized prioritized planning for coordination in multi-
robot system,” in Proceedings of IROS , 2013, pp. 3822–3829.
[19] M. Erdmann and T. Lozano-Perez, “On multiple moving objects,”
Algorithmica , vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 477–521, 1987.
[20] G. Sanchez and J. Latombe, “Using a PRM planner to compare central-
ized and decoupled planning for multi-robot systems,” in Proceedings
of ICRA , vol. 2, 2002, pp. 2112–2119.
[21] G. Sharon, R. Stern, A. Felner, and N. Sturtevant, “Conﬂict-based
search for optimal multi-agent path ﬁnding,” in Proc. of AAAI , 2012.
[22] C. Ferner, G. Wagner, and H. Choset, “ODrM*: optimal multirobot
path planning in low dimensional search spaces,” in ICRA , 2013, pp.
3854–3859.
[23] T. Standley, “Finding Optimal Solutions to Cooperative Pathﬁnding
Problems,” in Proceedings of AAAI , 2010, pp. 173–178.
[24] L. Busoniu, R. Babu ˇska, and B. De Schutter, “Multi-agent reinforce-
ment learning: An overview,” Innovations in Multi-Agent Systems and
Applications-1 , vol. 310, pp. 183–221, 2010.
[25] J. K. Gupta, M. Egorov, and M. Kochenderfer, “Cooperative multi-
agent control using deep reinforcement learning,” in AAMAS , 2017,
pp. 66–83.
[26] R. Lowe, Y . Wu, A. Tamar, J. Harb, O. P. Abbeel, and I. Mordatch,
“Multi-agent actor-critic for mixed cooperative-competitive environ-
ments,” in NIPS , 2017, pp. 6382–6393.
[27] J. Foerster, G. Farquhar, T. Afouras, N. Nardelli, and S. White-
son, “Counterfactual multi-agent policy gradients,” arXiv preprint
1705.08926 , 2017.
[28] J. Foerster, I. A. Assael, N. de Freitas, and S. Whiteson, “Learning to
communicate with deep multi-agent reinforcement learning,” in NIPS ,
2016, pp. 2137–2145.
[29] F. S. Melo and M. Veloso, “Heuristic planning for decentralized MDPs
with sparse interactions,” in DARS , 2013, pp. 329–343.
[30] T. Schaul, J. Quan, I. Antonoglou, and D. Silver, “Prioritized experi-
ence replay,” arXiv preprint 1511.05952 , 2015.
[31] V . Mnih, A. P. Badia, M. Mirza, A. Graves, T. Lillicrap, T. Harley,
D. Silver, and K. Kavukcuoglu, “Asynchronous methods for deep
reinforcement learning,” in ICML , 2016, pp. 1928–1937.
[32] K. Simonyan and A. Zisserman, “Very deep convolutional networks
for large-scale image recognition,” arXiv preprint 1409.1556 , 2014.
[33] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun, “Deep residual learning for
image recognition,” in CVPR , 2016, pp. 770–778.
[34] M. Babaeizadeh, I. Frosio, S. Tyree, J. Clemons, and J. Kautz,
“Reinforcement learning through asynchronous advantage actor-critic
on a GPU,” 2016.
[35] P. Ying and L. Dehua, “Improvement with joint rewards on multi-agent
cooperative reinforcement learning,” in CASCON , 2008, pp. 536–539.
[36] A. Nair, B. McGrew, M. Andrychowicz, W. Zaremba, and P. Abbeel,
“Overcoming exploration in reinforcement learning with demonstra-
tions,” arXiv preprint 1709.10089 , 2017.
[37] A. Rajeswaran, V . Kumar, A. Gupta, J. Schulman, E. Todorov, and
S. Levine, “Learning complex dexterous manipulation with deep rein-
forcement learning and demonstrations,” arXiv preprint 1709.10087 ,
2017.
[38] Y . Gao, H. Xu, J. Lin, F. Yu, S. Levine, and T. Darrell, “Reinforcement
learning from imperfect demonstrations,” arXiv:1802.05313 , 2018.
[39] M. Vecer ´ık, T. Hester, J. Scholz, F. Wang, O. Pietquin, B. Piot,
N. Heess, T. Roth ¨orl, T. Lampe, and M. A. Riedmiller, “Leveraging
demonstrations for deep reinforcement learning on robotics problems
with sparse rewards,” arXiv preprint 1707.08817 , 2017.

[40] S. Ross, G. Gordon, and D. Bagnell, “A reduction of imitation learning
and structured prediction to no-regret online learning,” in ICAIS , 2011,
pp. 627–635.
[41] S. Chernova and M. Veloso, “Conﬁdence-based policy learning from
demonstration using Gaussian mixture models,” in AAMAS .
[42] T. Dozat, “Incorporating Nesterov momentum into Adam,” 2016.
[43] N. A. Nystrom, M. J. Levine, R. Z. Roskies, and J. R. Scott, “Bridges:
a uniquely ﬂexible HPC resource for new communities and data
analytics,” in Proceedings of the XSEDE Conf. , 2015, pp. 30:1–30:8.